# LittleLemon_DB_CapstoneProject

This project is about helping Little Lemon complete a series of database related tasks. These tasks include setting up a database in MySQL workbench using a MySQL instance server, creating an entity relationship or Diagram and implementing it in MySQL workbench. create sales reports from the data in their database, build a table booking system, generate data insights using data analytics, and create a database client.Help
Little Lemon to build a relational database system by designing a well structured entity model or Diagram that conforms to the three fundamental normal forms.I design the Diagram using MySQL workbench, a unified visual tool used for database modeling and management.I then commit your project using Git, the version control system.in the next task, I created sales reports using database queries, procedures, and prepared statements.I used virtual tables to make use of data that exists in other tables and simplify data access and queries. I also made use of different kinds of JOIN clauses to link records of data between one or
more tables based on a common column. I helped Little Lemon to use stored procedures to create reusable code that can be invoked and executed as required. I also made use of triggers to store a set of actions in the form of a stored program,  then invoked automatically when certain events occur.In the next task, I helped Little Lemon use their data to generate business insights. I carried out this task using tableau,
the data visualization tool. Finally, I used tableau to produce interactive real time data visualizations in the form of dashboards. These process steps helped to provide clear and relevant answers to Little Lemons
important business questions.  final task was to help Little Lemon create a database client, so that they can interact with their database using a python based application. I establish this connection using
the python library, MySQL connector and the pip software package. Once I set up your python environment, I began working with your database client.
